{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18160\viewh9620\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ################################\
# Metallicity branch merge: July 2019\
# Matt Hosek\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Updates:\ulnone \
\
User-Level\
=========\
Non-solar metallicities are now available:\
	evolution: MISTv1.2, -4 < [M/H] < 0.5\
	atmosphere: get_merged_atmosphere, -2.5 < [M/H] < 0.5\
			get_phoenixv16_atmosphere, -4 < [M/H] < 1\
			get_BTSettl_atmosphere, -2.5 < [M/H] < 0.5\
			\
Non solar metallicities can be called in Isochrone objects using the keyword \'93metallicity\'94. Default value is [M/H] = 0 (solar).\
	> iso = synthetic.Isochrone(log_age, AKs, distance, metallicity=metallicity)\
\
-isochrone filenames: now iso_<logAge>_<Aks>_<distance>_<metallicity>.fits\
	-if no metallicity tag is detected, then will assume solar metallicity\
	-metallicity saved to 2 sig figs; \'93p\'94 and \'93m\'94 used to specify positive or negative\
	-if PopStar tries to read a file without the metallicity tag, it will assume it is solar metallicity\
\
-Popstar isochrone objects: isochrone.points.meta now includes two new keywords: \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
	-\'93METAL_IN\'94: defines the input metallicity requested by user\
	-\'93METAL_ACT\'94: defines the metallicity actually used in isochrone (closest metallicity available in evolution model)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
-Gaia G, Gbp, and Grp passbands are now available. There are 3 versions of the passbands: pre-launch, used for DR1, a DR2 version used in published DR2 magnitudes, and a revised DR2 version, which is found to best match DR2 data. They recommend using the revised DR2 version for synthetic photometry.\
To call these filters, use the string \'91Gaia,dr2_rev,G\'92. For the middle word, can use dr1, dr2, or dr2_rev. For filters, can use G, Gbp, or Grp. The README_filters.txt has been updated with this information\
\
-new test functions to test evolution models, atmosphere models, and filters (tests/test_models.py)\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Bug Fixes\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulnone -Ekstrom12, Pisa, Parsec, and Baraffe+15 functions now operate on their own (they were broken before)\
\
-get_merged_atmosphere(): previously we switched to BTSettl (or a merged between BTSettl and Phoenix) when Teff < 3800. The problem is that for older stellar populations, there are giant stars that drop below Teff < 3800, but the BTSettl grids don\'92t cover such low gravities. So, we were using much higher gravity BTSettl stellar models for these giants, which was significantly impacting the color and messing up the isochrone. \
To address this, I\'92ve added a gravity constraint into get_merged_atmosphere. If logg < 2.5, then it uses the PHOENIX atmospheres. If logg > 2.5, it uses the BTSettl grid. This isochrone now look much better\
\
Under the Hood\
============\
-Improved bound checking for logg and Teff when pulling model atmospheres (note: no checking for metallicity)\
	\'97> WARNING: Code will always take nearest point in grid, even if the desired point is really far away! This could trip up some users\
\
-Removed significantly outdated code\
\
Documentation\
============\
\
-Added docs/Paper_examples.ipynb Jupiter notebook to show paper examples\
-Added test functions to test_synthetic.py, test_models.py}